He opened the ball carefully, smoothed it out on the desk, and fitted it into the torn part of the Call. The fit at the sides was exact, but between the top of the crumpled fragment and the inferable “from Sydney” half an inch was missing, sufficient space to have held announcement of six or seven boats’ arrival. He turned the sheet over and saw that the other side of the missing portion could have held only a meaningless corner of a stockbroker’s advertisement.

Luke, leaning over his shoulder, asked: “What’s this all about?”

“Looks like the gent’s interested in a boat.”

“Well, there’s no law against that, or is there?” Luke said while Spade was folding the torn page and the crumpled fragment together and putting them into his coat-pocket. “You all through here now?”

“Yes. Thanks a lot, Luke. Will you give me a ring as soon as he comes in?”

“Sure.”

Spade went to the Business Office of the Call, bought a copy of the previous day’s issue, opened it to the shipping news page, and compared it with the page taken from Cairo’s wastebasket. The missing portion had read:

He read the list slowly and when he had finished he underscored “Hong Kong” with a fingernail, cut the list of arrivals from the paper with his pocketknife, put the rest of the paper and Cairo’s sheet into the wastebasket, and returned to his office.

He sat down at his desk, looked up a number in the telephone-book, and used the telephone.

“Kearny one four oh one, please.⁠ ⁠… Where is the Paloma, in from Hong Kong yesterday morning, docked?” He repeated the question. “Thanks.”

He held the receiver-hook down with his thumb for a moment, released it, and said: “Davenport two oh two oh, please.⁠ ⁠… Detective bureau, please.⁠ ⁠… Is Sergeant Polhaus there?⁠ ⁠… Thanks.⁠ ⁠… Hello, Tom, this is Sam Spade.⁠ ⁠… Yes, I tried to get you yesterday afternoon.⁠ ⁠… Sure, suppose you go to lunch with me.⁠ ⁠… Right.”

He kept the receiver to his ear while his thumb worked the hook again.

“Davenport oh one seven oh, please.⁠ ⁠… Hello, this is Samuel Spade. My secretary got a phone message yesterday that Mr. Bryan wanted to see me. Will you ask him what time’s the most convenient for him?⁠ ⁠… Yes, Spade, S-p-a-d-e.” A long pause. “Yes.⁠ ⁠… Two-thirty? All right. Thanks.”

He called a fifth number and said: “Hello, darling, let me talk to Sid?⁠ ⁠… Hello, Sid⁠—Sam. I’ve got a date with the District Attorney at half-past two this afternoon. Will you give me a ring⁠—here or there⁠—around four, just to see that I’m not in trouble?⁠ ⁠… Hell with your Saturday afternoon golf: your job’s to keep me out of jail.⁠ ⁠… Right, Sid. Bye.”

He pushed the telephone away, yawned, stretched, felt his bruised temple, looked at his watch, and rolled and lighted a cigarette. He smoked sleepily until Effie Perine came in.

Effie Perine came in smiling, bright-eyed and rosy-faced. “Ted says it could be,” she reported, “and he hopes it is. He says he’s not a specialist in that field, but the names and dates are all right, and at least none of your authorities or their works are out-and-out fakes. He’s all excited over it.”

“That’s swell, as long as he doesn’t get too enthusiastic to see through it if it’s phoney.”

“Oh, he wouldn’t⁠—not Ted! He’s too good at his stuff for that.”

“Uh-huh, the whole damned Perine family’s wonderful,” Spade said, “including you and the smudge of soot on your nose.”

“He’s not a Perine, he’s a Christy.” She bent her head to look at her nose in her vanity case mirror. “I must’ve got that from the fire.” She scrubbed the smudge with the corner of a handkerchief.

“The Perine-Christy enthusiasm ignite Berkeley?” he asked.

She made a face at him while patting her nose with a powdered pink disc. “There was a boat on fire when I came back. They were towing it out from the pier and the smoke blew all over our ferryboat.”

Spade put his hands on the arms of his chair. “Were you near enough to see the name of the boat?” he asked.

“Yes. La Paloma. Why?”

Spade smiled ruefully. “I’m damned if I know why, sister,” he said.
