“Well, sir, that’s just the point,” Gutman replied, and still only in his eyes was uneasiness faintly apparent. “Will they stop right there? Or won’t the fall-guy be a fresh clue that as likely as not will lead them to information about the falcon? And, on the other hand, wouldn’t you say they were stopped right now, and that the best thing for us to do is leave well enough alone?”

A forked vein began to swell in Spade’s forehead. “Jesus! you don’t know what it’s all about either,” he said in a restrained tone. “They’re not asleep, Gutman. They’re lying low, waiting. Try to get that. I’m in it up to my neck and they know it. That’s all right as long as I do something when the time comes. But it won’t be all right if I don’t.” His voice became persuasive again. “Listen, Gutman, we’ve absolutely got to give them a victim. There’s no way out of it. Let’s give them the punk.” He nodded pleasantly at the boy in the doorway. “He actually did shoot both of them⁠—Thursby and Jacobi⁠—didn’t he? Anyway, he’s made to order for the part. Let’s pin the necessary evidence on him and turn him over to them.”

The boy in the doorway tightened the corners of his mouth in what may have been a minute smile. Spade’s proposal seemed to have no other effect on him. Joel Cairo’s dark face was open-mouthed, open-eyed, yellowish, and amazed. He breathed through his mouth, his round effeminate chest rising and falling, while he gaped at Spade. Brigid O’Shaughnessy had moved away from Spade and had twisted herself around on the sofa to stare at him. There was a suggestion of hysterical laughter behind the startled confusion in her face.

Gutman remained still and expressionless for a long moment. Then he decided to laugh. He laughed heartily and lengthily, not stopping until his sleek eyes had borrowed merriment from his laughter. When he stopped laughing he said: “By Gad, sir, you’re a character, that you are!” He took a white handkerchief from his pocket and wiped his eyes. “Yes, sir, there’s never any telling what you’ll do or say next, except that it’s bound to be something astonishing.”

“There’s nothing funny about it.” Spade did not seem offended by the fat man’s laughter, nor in any way impressed. He spoke in the manner of one reasoning with a recalcitrant, but not altogether unreasonable, friend. “It’s our best bet. With him in their hands, the police will⁠—”

“But, my dear man,” Gutman objected, “can’t you see? If I even for a moment thought of doing it⁠—But that’s ridiculous too. I feel towards Wilmer just exactly as if he were my own son. I really do. But if I even for a moment thought of doing what you propose, what in the world do you think would keep Wilmer from telling the police every last detail about the falcon and all of us?”

Spade grinned with stiff lips. “If we had to,” he said softly, “we could have him killed resisting arrest. But we won’t have to go that far. Let him talk his head off. I promise you nobody’ll do anything about it. That’s easy enough to fix.”

The pink flesh on Gutman’s forehead crawled in a frown. He lowered his head, mashing his chins together over his collar, and asked: “How?” Then, with an abruptness that set all his fat bulbs to quivering and tumbling against one another, he raised his head, squirmed around to look at the boy, and laughed uproariously. “What do you think of this, Wilmer? It’s funny, eh?”

The boy’s eyes were cold hazel gleams under his lashes. He said in a low distinct voice: “Yes, it’s funny⁠—the son of a bitch.”

Spade was talking to Brigid O’Shaughnessy: “How do you feel now, angel? Any better?”

“Yes, much better, only”⁠—she reduced her voice until the last words would have been unintelligible two feet away⁠—“I’m frightened.”

“Don’t be,” he said carelessly and put a hand on her grey-stockinged knee. “Nothing very bad’s going to happen. Want a drink?”

“Not now, thanks.” Her voice sank again. “Be careful, Sam.”

Spade grinned and looked at Gutman, who was looking at him. The fat man smiled genially, saying nothing for a moment, and then asked: “How?”

Spade was stupid. “How what?”

The fat man considered more laughter necessary then, and an explanation: “Well, sir, if you’re really serious about this⁠—this suggestion of yours, the least we can do in common politeness is to hear you out. Now how are you going about fixing it so that Wilmer”⁠—he paused here to laugh again⁠—“won’t be able to do us any harm?”

Spade shook his head. “No,” he said, “I wouldn’t want to take advantage of anybody’s politeness, no matter how common, like that. Forget it.”

The fat man puckered up his facial bulbs. “Now come, come,” he protested, “you make me decidedly uncomfortable. I shouldn’t have laughed, and I apologize most humbly and sincerely. I wouldn’t want to seem to ridicule anything you’d suggest, Mr. Spade, regardless of how much I disagreed with you, for you must know that I have the greatest respect and admiration for your astuteness. Now mind you, I don’t see how this suggestion of yours can be in any way practical⁠—even leaving out the fact that I couldn’t feel any different towards Wilmer if he was my own flesh and blood⁠—but I’ll consider it a personal favor as well as a sign that you’ve accepted my apologies, sir, if you’ll go ahead and outline the rest of it.”
