From the walls to the rugs on the floor, from the furniture to the appointments of the bath, with its pool sunk in the floor instead of the customary unlovely tub, everything was luxurious. In the bedroom Louise was watching for me. It was easy to see that she was much improved; the flush was going, and the peculiar gasping breathing of the night before was now a comfortable and easy respiration.

She held out her hand and I took it between both of mine.

“What can I say to you, Miss Innes?” she said slowly. “To have come like this⁠—”

I thought she was going to break down, but she did not.

“You are not to think of anything but of getting well,” I said, patting her hand. “When you are better, I am going to scold you for not coming here at once. This is your home, my dear, and of all people in the world, Halsey’s old aunt ought to make you welcome.”

She smiled a little, sadly, I thought.

“I ought not to see Halsey,” she said. “Miss Innes, there are a great many things you will never understand, I am afraid. I am an impostor on your sympathy, because I⁠—I stay here and let you lavish care on me, and all the time I know you are going to despise me.”

“Nonsense!” I said briskly. “Why, what would Halsey do to me if I even ventured such a thing? He is so big and masterful that if I dared to be anything but rapturous over you, he would throw me out of a window. Indeed, he would be quite capable of it.”

She seemed scarcely to hear my facetious tone. She had eloquent brown eyes⁠—the Inneses are fair, and are prone to a grayish-green optic that is better for use than appearance⁠—and they seemed now to be clouded with trouble.

“Poor Halsey!” she said softly. “Miss Innes, I can not marry him, and I am afraid to tell him. I am a coward⁠—a coward!”

I sat beside the bed and stared at her. She was too ill to argue with, and, besides, sick people take queer fancies.

“We will talk about that when you are stronger,” I said gently.

“But there are some things I must tell you,” she insisted. “You must wonder how I came here, and why I stayed hidden at the lodge. Dear old Thomas has been almost crazy, Miss Innes. I did not know that Sunnyside was rented. I knew my mother wished to rent it, without telling my⁠—stepfather, but the news must have reached her after I left. When I started east, I had only one idea⁠—to be alone with my thoughts for a time, to bury myself here. Then, I⁠—must have taken a cold on the train.”

“You came east in clothing suitable for California,” I said, “and, like all young girls nowadays, I don’t suppose you wear flannels.” But she was not listening.

“Miss Innes,” she said, “has my stepbrother Arnold gone away?”

“What do you mean?” I asked, startled. But Louise was literal.

“He didn’t come back that night,” she said, “and it was so important that I should see him.”

“I believe he has gone away,” I replied uncertainly. “Isn’t it something that we could attend to instead?”

But she shook her head. “I must do it myself,” she said dully. “My mother must have rented Sunnyside without telling my stepfather, and⁠—Miss Innes, did you ever hear of anyone being wretchedly poor in the midst of luxury?

“Did you ever long, and long, for money⁠—money to use without question, money that no one would take you to task about? My mother and I have been surrounded for years with every indulgence⁠—everything that would make a display. But we have never had any money, Miss Innes; that must have been why mother rented this house. My stepfather pays our bills. It’s the most maddening, humiliating existence in the world. I would love honest poverty better.”

“Never mind,” I said; “when you and Halsey are married you can be as honest as you like, and you will certainly be poor.”

Halsey came to the door at that moment and I could hear him coaxing Liddy for admission to the sickroom.

“Shall I bring him in?” I asked Louise, uncertain what to do. The girl seemed to shrink back among her pillows at the sound of his voice. I was vaguely irritated with her; there are few young fellows like Halsey⁠—straightforward, honest, and willing to sacrifice everything for the one woman. I knew one once, more than thirty years ago, who was like that: he died a long time ago. And sometimes I take out his picture, with its cane and its queer silk hat, and look at it. But of late years it has grown too painful: he is always a boy⁠—and I am an old woman. I would not bring him back if I could.

Perhaps it was some such memory that made me call out sharply.

“Come in, Halsey.” And then I took my sewing and went into the boudoir beyond, to play propriety. I did not try to hear what they said, but every word came through the open door with curious distinctness. Halsey had evidently gone over to the bed and I suppose he kissed her. There was silence for a moment, as if words were superfluous things.

“I have been almost wild, sweetheart,”⁠—Halsey’s voice. “Why didn’t you trust me, and send for me before?”

“It was because I couldn’t trust myself,” she said in a low tone. “I am too weak to struggle today; oh, Halsey, how I have wanted to see you!”

There was something I did not hear, then Halsey again.

“We could go away,” he was saying. “What does it matter about anyone in the world but just the two of us? To be always together, like this, hand in hand; Louise⁠—don’t tell me it isn’t going to be. I won’t believe you.”

“You don’t know; you don’t know,” Louise repeated dully. “Halsey, I care⁠—you know that⁠—but⁠—not enough to marry you.”

“That is not true, Louise,” he said sternly. “You can not look at me with your honest eyes and say that.”

“I can not marry you,” she repeated miserably. “It’s bad enough, isn’t it? Don’t make it worse. Some day, before long, you will be glad.”

“Then it is because you have never loved me.” There were depths of hurt pride in his voice. “You saw how much I loved you, and you let me think you cared⁠—for a while. No⁠—that isn’t like you, Louise. There is something you haven’t told me. Is it⁠—because there is someone else?”

“Yes,” almost inaudibly.

“Louise! Oh, I don’t believe it.”

“It is true,” she said sadly. “Halsey, you must not try to see me again. As soon as I can, I am going away from here⁠—where you are all so much kinder than I deserve. And whatever you hear about me, try to think as well of me as you can. I am going to marry⁠—another man. How you must hate me⁠—hate me!”

I could hear Halsey cross the room to the window. Then, after a pause, he went back to her again. I could hardly sit still; I wanted to go in and give her a good shaking.

“Then it’s all over,” he was saying with a long breath. “The plans we made together, the hopes, the⁠—all of it⁠—over! Well, I’ll not be a baby, and I’ll give you up the minute you say ‘I don’t love you and I do love⁠—someone else’!”

“I can not say that,” she breathed, “but, very soon, I shall marry⁠—the other man.”

I could hear Halsey’s low triumphant laugh.

“I defy him,” he said. “Sweetheart, as long as you care for me, I am not afraid.”

The wind slammed the door between the two rooms just then, and I could hear nothing more, although I moved my chair quite close. After a discreet interval, I went into the other room, and found Louise alone. She was staring with sad eyes at the cherub painted on the ceiling over the bed, and because she looked tired I did not disturb her.
